[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: I have
known Army Colonel John
Alexander, our next guest here
on Beyond Belief for years.
He is an expert on
UFOs, remote viewing,
after-death experiences.
And it's my pleasure to welcome
John Alexander to Beyond
Belief.
John, it's always a
pleasure seeing you.
>>JOHN B. ALEXANDER:
Thank you, George.
>>NOORY: How have you been?
>>ALEXANDER: Ah, pretty good.
>>NOORY: You are-- we're going
to talk about a lot of things
with you today.
But UFOs on the top
of my list with you.
When you were studying UFOs
and investigating them,
and you still are, did you
ever come across anything
that we really
need to know about?
>>ALEXANDER: Well, as
you know, the first line
of my UFO book, UFOs are real.
I think the first thing you
need to know is absolutely real.
What they are, that's
kind of a different story.
And I argue that the issues
are down to fundamental,
like how do you define this?
I mean, this is a problem.
You know, you've got
low balls of light
and they've got hard craft
more than a mile across,
and thousands of
variations in between.
And it's how do you rectify
all of this variation?
I think that's a
particular problem.
I mean, people sort
of have a general idea
what they think a
UFO is, until you
start looking at
all the sightings
and it becomes problematic.
>>NOORY: How come we don't
have that hard evidence?
We've got witness
testimony, but we just
don't have that hard evidence.
>>ALEXANDER: Well.
I'd ask how you
describe hard evidence.
I mean, if you take cases
like Bentwaters for instance,
there's one where
you have radiation.
You've got the pods, casts
of something physically
on the ground.
The video evidence that comes
in now, people say, where is it?
Well, hell, it's coming
in basically weekly.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>ALEXANDER: Now, you do have a
problem because of digitization
and what can be done with CGI.
But many of these cases
actually do stand up.
>>NOORY: Los Alamos
National Laboratories.
What goes on there?
>>ALEXANDER: Nuclear
weapons research.
Actually it's much
broader than that.
>>NOORY: And?
>>ALEXANDER: But
we were the ones
who brought the atomic bomb
and then did nuclear weapons.
But they study just a
breadth of technologies.
>>NOORY: Lots of things
are happening there.
>>ALEXANDER: Yeah.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- You work in
stockpile stewardship.
Exciting developments in
supercomputing and HIV research
and the fight against
improvised bombs
marked recent highlights at
Los Alamos National Laboratory.
- The weapons program.
>>NOORY: It's the
most modern warhead
in the US nuclear
arsenal, and deployed
to the Navy's submarine fleet.
Work has begun on canceling
the war reserve W88
pit, the first W88
deliverable for this year.
The casting process
is new for the W88,
the result of extensive
study and certification.
In collaboration with Lawrence
Livermore National Laboratory,
Los Alamos has
begun the transition
to manufacture W87 pits.
Los Alamos is integrating
Livermore teams,
working side by side
at Technical Area 55,
and demonstrating that
Los Alamos is indeed
the nation's plutonium
center for excellence.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: Well,
you're right, John.
A lot of things are
happening at Los Alamos.
Is there anything
secretive in terms
of ufology going on there?
>>ALEXANDER: Not to the
best of my knowledge.
Now, we've discussed with
many people, 7% to 10%
of the population believe
they've seen a UFO.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>ALEXANDER: Those numbers
are consistent with the US
government, with lab
employees and that,
so you have many individuals
who have had some of them
pretty dramatic
personal experiences.
But that does not
transition to being
an institutional responsibility.
And like you might expect
in a laboratory setting,
you run the gamut of belief
systems from yeah, I've seen it
and I believe that
to this is total BS
and I'm not going to waste time.
>>NOORY: Why do we seem to get
so many different varieties
of UFO reports?
Like you just mentioned
the mile-long craft,
the small ones, the orbs.
We have so many
different concepts.
>>ALEXANDER: Yeah.
>>NOORY: How come?
>>ALEXANDER: I have no idea.
And I think that's the problem.
And one of the big
issues when people
who want to study
UFOs and that, they're
looking for some simplistic
answer, something one size
fits all.
Pulls all of the theories
together and that.
And in my view, it's just
not likely to happen.
Well, one of the things I
point out is the phenomena that
we're looking at-- and I would
take it to an even broader
context--
is at least as complex as
cancer or AIDS, or that.
You look at the amount of money
that we pour into research
in those areas and
struggle for answers.
We spend almost nothing in
the areas of phenomenology
and studying that.
And I think the
probability of getting
answers there are pretty slim.
>>NOORY: The United
States at one point
was into Project Blue
Book, investigating UFOs.
Then they abruptly stopped
it with the Condon Report.
Why'd they stop?
>>ALEXANDER: Oh, the
answer's quite simple.
They did not want to
screw with it anymore.
I mean, this was an
Air Force project.
And yes, you had people
who were assigned.
Then you had an
alternative detail.
You never had-- you had five
people in Blue Book itself.
But then bases had
officers who were
responsible for doing reports.
And they just wanted
it to go away.
I mean, it was noise
level kind of thing.
Remember that this
happened in '68, '69.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>ALEXANDER: If
you remember what's
going on in the
world at that time,
Vietnam is about at its height.
Putting resources
into UFO research
is a real distraction from--
between that and the
emphasis on the Cold War,
worrying what the Soviet
Union was likely to be doing.
>>NOORY: Did they
do Project Blue
Book initially to appease
the United States citizens,
to basically tell them, we're
investigating this, folks?
>>ALEXANDER: Well, I think--
well, initially if you go
back to the '47 era and those,
they were really
mystified, and also scared.
>>NOORY: And scared, yeah.
>>ALEXANDER: Because
remember, in '52
we had this flyover
in Washington, DC,
sent jets up chasing
them and all of that,
and had no good answers for it.
But over time, this
went on and on, and on.
You were not getting answers.
You were not getting a threat.
So from an, again,
institutional perspective,
I don't want to waste
resources on it.
Just let it go away.
Some of it was,
initially especially,
to appease the public,
because they had questions.
What is this?
How can these things be here
and flying around and doing
strange things?
>>NOORY: "War of the Worlds"
scared the heck out of people.
>>ALEXANDER: Well, and
again, the scare initially
was that if it's not
us, maybe it's Soviet.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>ALEXANDER: And
if the Soviets have
some capability that supersedes
ours, that's a real threat.
But once that was
pretty well put to bed,
no, it was just a
pain in the ass.
>>NOORY: Have you seen a UFO?
>>ALEXANDER: Yes.
>>NOORY: Tell me
about the experience.
>>ALEXANDER: Well, first
one was pretty minuscule.
I was up at a ranch up in
the State of Washington
and I watched this thing
come across the sky at night.
And everybody thought it was a
satellite, and all of a sudden
it just stopped.
And satellites don't stop.
>>NOORY: That's what I saw.
I saw one of those too.
>>ALEXANDER: The more recent
one was more dramatic, a case
that a number of people know.
And that was with Chris Bledsoe.
And Chris had a phenomenal case.
and that went on and on.
I went down to visit him
in October of 2014 or '15.
And he was explaining
everything.
We went down to the
river and he showed me
where things had happened.
>>NOORY: Where it was.
>>ALEXANDER: And we got
back up to his vehicle,
just early evening,
just getting dark.
Light is significant here.
So we're leaning
against the car talking.
And he's pointing out where
various things happened
and that.
And all of a sudden he says,
oh, I think they're here.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>ALEXANDER: And
within 10 seconds
this thing pops into view
and goes zipping off.
And again, there's a
temporal relationship
between him saying,
I think they're here,
and the object appearing that
certainly got my attention.
>>NOORY: Were you baffled?
>>ALEXANDER: If you mean,
do I have any answer,
the answer is no.
Like I said, it
got my attention.
And certainly, we were also
back at his house and a lot
of strange things happened.
I mean, this is a
very complex set
of phenomena that
happened there.
And saw some strange things
happen again near the house.
That wasn't a UFO per se.
But it said-- to me, it gave
me quite a bit of credibility
to the case that
he was describing.
>>NOORY: John, it's
obvious that they
are under some kind of
intelligent control.
Wouldn't you think?
>>ALEXANDER: Some of them
certainly seem to be.
And they seem to respond when
they interact with a thing.
We've had any number of
cases, for instance, where
pilots have intercepted them.
We made the mistake, I think, of
shooting at them periodically.
>>NOORY: Not.
Smart.
>>ALEXANDER: You hear
Milton Torres case,
the great one over the UK.
Flies in.
He goes to ripple his missiles.
And in two seconds, the
UFO that was at a hover
has gone outside the
radar range of 250 miles.
And I don't know how fast
you can calculate that,
but that's pretty damn fast.
>>NOORY: That is pretty fast.
And there have been some cases
where the UFOs have retaliated,
haven't they?
They've like gobbled
up an airplane
and the plane's gone now.
>>ALEXANDER: If you're talking
about the case in Australia,
that's one where
we just don't know.
We have the pilot is
flying down to Tasmania
and he's interacting with the
traffic control and saying,
I've got something
flying above me here.
And mid-sentence,
stops and never--
>>NOORY: And he's gone.
>>ALEXANDER: Never
heard him from again.
And they did
extensive searching,
never found a debris field
or anything of that nature.
You have had--
I think the Iranian case is one
of the most fascinating one.
>>NOORY: With the pilots.
>>ALEXANDER: Where the
fighters go in, they intercept.
And what was interesting
to me is the pilot said,
I was going to--
as I got ready to
fire, all of a sudden
it shut down the
panels and whatnot.
What was more of
interest, after they
turned away and
became a non-threat,
electronics came back up again.
There's a guy who's worked a
lot in electronic warfare--
I had the tactical directed
energy programs for the Army
at the time when I was--
>>NOORY: You did, yeah.
>>ALEXANDER: ASCO.
And I know how to turn you off.
What I don't know how to
turn you off and turn you
back on again.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>ALEXANDER: And
that's a capability
that would exceed anything
that's known even today.
>>NOORY: What does that
tell you about what
these craft could be?
>>ALEXANDER: Well,
again, I think
the problem is that
we're talking about them
as a single kind of
entity sort of thing.
We have a broad
range of phenomena,
even within the UFOs itself.
If you want to extrapolate
to the larger scale,
I've talked to--
you know, I came up
with the term in a book called
the precognitive sentient
phenomena.
And that has to--
>>NOORY: Yeah.
You coined that phrase.
>>ALEXANDER: Yes.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>ALEXANDER: And that
came from watching
Skinwalker Ranch and the
events that happened there.
But I think it has
applicability in this range.
And what I meant--
precognitive in that case,
it, whatever it is,
knew how we were
going to respond even before
the phenomena were presented.
Sentient, it was
certainly smart.
And clearly a phenomenon.
And this gets to the
trickster, if you will.
Whatever it was, the
precognitive thing--
it was firmly in control.
And I think that's what you're
seeing in the UFO phenomena
as well.
Whatever it is,
it is in control.
>>NOORY: What does it want,
in your opinion, John?
What do they want?
>>ALEXANDER: I don't--
well, again here,
I'm not sure it's
a they or want.
What I look at, again in the
broader range of phenomenology,
is it looks like
human consciousness is
a piece of this.
If you go back in history and
you look at what's happened
with UFOs, there's a classic
case from Jacques Vallée that I
use.
And it took place
in the early 1900s.
The guy drives around a mountain
in the state of Washington.
And he said, here's
this UFO hovering there
and I can see every rivet.
In early 1900s,
that makes sense.
Anybody who knew anything
about space travel
knows no way in hell
you'd use rivets.
My point here is
that it seems to be
a step ahead of
our consciousness,
but not beyond belief.
And that is as it evolves and
our consciousness evolves,
there's some kind of interaction
that, again, this gets back
to terribly, terribly complex.
>>NOORY: Interesting
take on all of that.
People have in
some cases reported
seeing little occupants in
some of these craft as well.
>>ALEXANDER: Right.
>>NOORY: Are they robots?
Are they humanoids?
What are they?
>>ALEXANDER: Well,
again, I have no idea.
But one of the
things I point out
is that throughout
human history,
we have had the reports of
interaction between humans
and sentient non-human beings.
Every culture in the
world has described
those sorts of things.
So it continues in ours.
Now, it's fairly recent
that we've added, oh,
by the way, they came in
in a UFO, if you will,
or a flying craft.
Before, they just appeared.
People went into the mountains.
You know, you have
"Rip Van Winkle"
and these kind of things.
And again, not unique.
I've spent a lot
of time in Hawaii.
You talk about the Menehune,
the little people who
construct things and you
find physical structures
that occur after that.
I just don't know.
Now, if you want to do it again
from a practical standpoint,
if you were going to go out--
and it is what we are doing
in space exploration early on--
robots make a lot of sense.
>>NOORY: Yes, they do.
Especially.
>>ALEXANDER: When you look at
what's happening in warfare,
drones if you will, dirty,
dull, and dangerous.
You can send those
kinds of things out.
The price you pay
for human exploration
and what you have to do from
a technological standpoint,
the monetary--
we value human
life, so you've got
to have secondary,
tertiary, you know,
backup systems for survival.
A robot, you don't have
to worry about that.
So that's frankly, if
you were a foreign entity
or extraterrestrial entity in
this case, sending a thing in,
that would be the
practical way to do it.
>>NOORY: It would.
Absolutely.
Where might they be coming from.
I know this is all
speculation, but obviously
do you think they're
within our solar system?
Jacques Vallée,
whom you've quoted,
believes these are
dimensional craft.
>>ALEXANDER: Yeah.
>>NOORY: I would like
to believe they're
coming from other planetary
systems in our universe.
>>ALEXANDER: Well, the
first question of course
is, is there sentient
life in the universe?
And the answer is absolutely.
And that's not speculation.
That's just pure numbers.
The number of-- in
the recent decades,
if you look at the number
of inhabitable planets
that we're finding--
now, we were
guessing three decades ago.
Now, we know that there are
out in the hundreds of billions
of inhabitable,
Earth-like planets that
are out there, which says
there ought to be sentient life
someplace out there who would
also be doing space exploration
and coming here.
Jacques and I are
actually very close.
You know, he did the
forward for my book.
And there's a reason on that.
And that is, again, you get back
to the role of consciousness,
that there seems to be some
role in here that allows
things to appear and disappear.
Many of the phenomena
that we talk about--
this is the case,
particularly where things just
disappear and appear--
would suggest a
multi-dimensional reality.
And it certainly is, again from
a pure scientific perspective,
a lot easier to transit the
parallel dimensions right
here than it is
to have warp speed
and be able to do
superluminal travel that
would be necessary
to do this even
within the solar system, let
alone intergalactic kinds
of travel.
>>NOORY: Jacques Vallée was
highlighted in the movie "Close
Encounters of the Third Kind"
as the Frenchman, right?
>>ALEXANDER: Right.
>>NOORY: He's one of a kind.
He's been at the forefront
of investigations
for so many years.
As you just mentioned,
you're a friend of his.
Do you have any doubts,
John, any doubts at all
that the UFO
phenomenon is not real?
>>ALEXANDER: Absolutely not.
Put that in a positive frame.
It is absolutely real.
>>NOORY: It is the real deal.
>>ALEXANDER: There's
no doubt about that.
>>NOORY: People are
seeing something.
>>ALEXANDER: They're
seeing things--
>>NOORY: The big
question is from where.
>>ALEXANDER: They're
definitely seeing things.
They are definitely
having interaction
with sentient non-human beings.
How that comes about and
the parameters of it,
that's why I keep arguing we
need to make it permissible
for serious scientists to
study this without risking
their reputation or livelihood.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>ALEXANDER: And
we don't do that.
>>NOORY: Ben Rich from
Lockheed Skunk Works
has talked about technologies.
But he says that
we are so advanced,
but it's all in the
Black Ops projects.
>>ALEXANDER: Well--
>>NOORY: Is that true?
>>ALEXANDER: Let's be clear.
Ben Rich was a friend of mine.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>ALEXANDER: And
most of the things
you're describing comes
from the extrapolation
of a short presentation
that somebody heard once.
We sat down and discussed
this in considerable detail.
>>NOORY: You and Ben.
>>ALEXANDER: Several times.
And quite frankly, you know,
he had a shopping list.
He said, if this is real, I
want their propulsion system,
I want this, I
want that, do that.
Do they have
advanced technology?
Yes.
But one of the
things I point to,
if you look at the
advanced technology, what's
the most advanced system
that we have right today?
It's probably the F-35.
And look at the
technological problems
we have bringing that--
>>NOORY: Oh, they have
oxygen issues with it now.
>>ALEXANDER: Yeah.
Burt Rutan was just at the
house, and we were discussing--
you know, he's a great aviator--
and discussing that.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>ALEXANDER: And he goes,
eh, that's old technology.
You're just kind of
kludging things together.
I fail to see any big
leaps in technology.
>>NOORY: John, you have been
an expert in remote viewing.
I've known you for years as one
of the foremost remote viewer
experts.
Tell me about that.
>>ALEXANDER: I think
that's a bit of a stretch.
>>NOORY: Ah.
Take the credit
when credit's due.
In 2009, there was a film called
"The Men Who Stare at Goats."
It was based about
a true story which
I want to talk with you about.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- What you're saying is
that you were a psychic spy?
- A Jedi warrior.
- I'd heard that the US
government was training
psychic soldiers, and
that Lyn Cassidy was
the best of the best.
- I've been re-activated.
I'm on a mission.
- I could come.
Lyn's story was unbelievable,
crazy, and completely true.
- You have to dream
a new America that
no longer has an exploitative
view of everyone.
You will be a psychic weapon!
Feel it, yes.
We must create warrior monks
who can pass through walls
and see into the future.
- Congratulations, Scotty.
- Thank you.
- Sorry it doesn't work
out between you two.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: Does that
bring back memories?
>>ALEXANDER: Yeah.
Well, I know-- in fact, I've
done a whole write-up on it,
what's real and what's not real.
I might point out that the
last one was ostensibly
General Stubblebine, who
unfortunately died 6 February
of this year and did not
try to run through walls.
No.
The problem that I
saw is Jon Ronson
took about this much truth
and he wrote this much.
>>NOORY: And he expanded it.
>>ALEXANDER: And then
they made the movie.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>ALEXANDER: You can find--
you can imagine how
badly they extrapolated.
>>NOORY: But we did have a
government program like that.
>>ALEXANDER: Well, we had
the remote viewing program
if that's what
you're referring to.
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>ALEXANDER: The goats
program, there were goats
and they actually died.
But none of them
were from staring.
It was from a technology
called dim mak, which
is a martial arts form.
Now, I've got-- actually on
my web site I have listed
here's what's real and
what's not real and--
yeah.
>>NOORY: But tell me about
the remote viewing program.
Why did we really get into that?
Was it because of the Soviets?
>>ALEXANDER: That was
a big piece of it, yes.
In fact, there's a book
called "ESP Wars East & West"
that's out.
It's kind of interesting,
because you had participants
from both sides write it up.
In fairness, we were
concerned about the work
that the Soviets--
remember, this was the old
days of the Soviet Union.
>>NOORY: The Cold War too.
>>ALEXANDER: And they
were pursuing this fairly
rigorously.
And there were a
host of things--
SRI was critically involved.
You had Hal Puthoff
and Russ Targ
who came up with the program.
And they had three
remote viewers
who worked with them initially.
It was Ingo Swann, Pat Price,
and Hella Hammid, all of which
are now deceased.
And they had run a series
of programs that said--
or experiments and said,
yeah, they could obviously
get information this way.
Joe McMoneagle, of course, who
is Remote Viewer 001 and has
done--
oh, I guess one of
the premier ones
was seeing the work with
a Soviet submarine, where
he was asked to look at a site.
He had the geographic
coordinates
and described a big building.
And so they went back
and said, describe
what's in the building.
And he described-- he says,
well, there's some submarine.
One of them's really, really big
and is dramatically different.
The tubes are
forward of the sail,
a procedure we've
never seen before.
Described double
hull and all that.
So the information
went to the submarine
scientists, who kind
of laughed and said,
nah, you couldn't do
that, because if you
build a submarine that
big, when it went to depth
it would crush.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>ALEXANDER: Sure enough,
shortly thereafter the clouds
parted and cameras
came on and there
was a big ass submarine, became
known as the Typhoon class.
So there were a
number of attributes
that Joe had directly
and correctly
correlated with it, which
took us totally by surprise.
>>NOORY: Does
remote viewing allow
you to look into the future as
well, or is it just real-time?
>>ALEXANDER: Oh no.
No.
In fact, there's a
classic experiment
that was done by Bob
Jahn at Princeton.
You know, he and Brenda
Dunn were doing work there.
But it's one where they
had a person was going out
and they had the remote
viewer describe the target.
And the person was
traveling to Europe.
They did the description
of the target.
It was a specific bridge
in Czechoslovakia.
And they described it.
And the target had not
even been selected yet.
>>NOORY: Aha.
>>ALEXANDER: There were
a series of targets.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>ALEXANDER: So the target
hadn't been selected.
The person went there, and a
very, very high correlation
between the information that was
done 24 hours before the target
was even selected, let alone
them knowing about the target.
>>NOORY: It's an amazing feat,
remote viewing, allowing you
to glance at things.
What's its sole purpose, though?
What do you think it's
really set up for?
>>ALEXANDER: Well, again,
we're back to complexity,
because the things
I've described so far
have been very
accurately described
details and experiments.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>ALEXANDER: What the
community doesn't like to talk
about is the
spectacular failures,
where you get information that
turns out to be really wrong.
>>NOORY: And there
have been some.
Yeah.
>>ALEXANDER: For
instance, there's
a number of people who make
consistent claims, particularly
with law enforcement--
they went out.
Now, some law
enforcement agencies
will use remote
viewers or psychics.
Others just want
them to stay away,
because they muck up
the investigation,
having had so many wrong.
The problem is, in my view,
one of signal to noise.
And this is one that we
have not yet conquered.
And that is, how
do you determine
when you're getting accurate
information versus information
that is inaccurate?
I think part of the problem
in dealing with the future
is the future may not
be fully determined.
>>NOORY: It's changeable.
>>ALEXANDER: And if you think
of it is a collapsing wave
function, there
are certain things
that have to happen
for the future
that you see to
happen accurately.
And if all of those things
don't fall into place,
then a different future emerges.
Again, these are-- it's
hard to even wrap your mind
around the possibilities.
>>NOORY: Is there a
science behind this, John?
>>ALEXANDER: I think so.
But again, it's one that's not
understood and not studied.
And the reason it's
not studied is,
A, just from a
fiscal standpoint,
you're not going to make
a lot of money at it,
and that you know, it's not
good for your career in general
to study in these areas,
because, well, you may know,
Scientific American attacked
me ad hominem, and--
>>NOORY: Yes.
Unjustifiably so, by the way.
We support you.
>>ALEXANDER: Yeah.
Well, it could be.
But the point was
that their problem
with what I was
discussing ostensibly
was because I have
interests in these areas.
What's interesting
to note, the topic
had to do with
non-lethal weapons.
It had nothing to
do with the topic
that they were using to attack.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>ALEXANDER: And so other
scientists look at these things
and they've seen people
who have been burned.
If you get too far
outside your field,
you can get burned
rather seriously.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
There's a lot of hate out there.
Have we used remote viewing
to try to kill someone?
>>ALEXANDER: Well, you'd
have to describe "we."
Yeah.
Has anybody?
I mean, if you get into--
>>NOORY: "We" as a government.
>>ALEXANDER: Well,
let's extrapolate
a bit into other fields,
because, you know,
remote viewing has really been
around, again, for millennia.
This has been used by
militaries to prognosticate--
>>NOORY: Sure.
Shamans.
>>ALEXANDER: --battles and
see things, and shamans
and all of that.
So those are very real.
You certainly do-- if
you take it out of--
I don't think any government
remote viewers, at least
US government remote viewers,
have used this to adversely
affect individuals.
>>NOORY: You don't think they've
tried to enter somebody's dream
state with remote viewing or in
dreams, or anything like that.
>>ALEXANDER: Well, I can't
speak to any-- any individual.
And one of the problems
now-- remember, the program
ended in '95.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>ALEXANDER: And you now have
the second and third generation
derivatives of the various
people who became--
it's almost like
the martial arts,
where you have my instructor
set up this procedure
and passed it on.
Has somebody gone out there?
Well, it's quite possible.
I see no evidence, A,
that it's been done,
or B, that it's been successful.
>>NOORY: You had mentioned
earlier that there is
a difficulty ascertaining the
difference between what is
happening, what is
real, and what isn't.
How do they know that?
When you're doing a
remote viewing session,
and maybe sketching
or drawing, how
do you know that the brain
isn't just creating this stuff?
>>ALEXANDER: Well, one of the
things that was determined
early on was the necessity
for observation at some point,
The human consciousness would
interact with the target
and would actually be able
to see that and verify
the validity of it.
It's why you have the
remote viewing where
they do try to predict
futures for stock market
and things of that nature.
You don't view the stock market.
What they view is an alternative
object that represents
is it moving up or down?
Again, what this is
raising is a whole series
of very, very
fascinating questions,
and ones that I
don't think we're
doing an adequate
job in exploring.
>>NOORY: It is amazing how this
happens and how this works.
How does it work, because
we know it does happen?
>>ALEXANDER: Well, therein the--
>>NOORY: What is it?
>>ALEXANDER: This has been
the catch-22, if you will,
particularly if you go from
a scientific perspective.
How do you do that?
One early on was guessing that
it was an electromagnetic kind
of thing.
The brain went out
there and saw things.
>>NOORY: Like a radio wave.
>>ALEXANDER: But the issue that
you raised a short time ago,
when it says, I'm going
to perturbate time,
that can not be accommodated by
any of the models that we have.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>ALEXANDER: So there are
people who have proposed things,
but we have just not done
adequate research and following
up on it.
>>NOORY: We started off
this discussion, John,
talking about UFOs.
And now we talk
about remote viewing.
Is there a connection
between those two at all?
>>NOORY: Oh, I think it's
much, much broader than--
in fact, I have a slide that I
use in all of my presentations
on these topics.
And it has not only UFOs,
but near-death experiences,
healings, psychokinesis, and--
>>NOORY: It's all tied together.
>>ALEXANDER: --even
cryptozoology, if you will,
Bigfoot and things like that.
Yeah.
I think there is a connection.
And I do think that
the connection has
to do with consciousness,
and human consciousness
as a part of that.
>>NOORY: And human
consciousness, does it
exist without the brain?
>>ALEXANDER: Absolutely.
Now, one of the-- the
whole brain-mind duality
is one of the things that
has perplexed the field.
You know, Larry Dossey
wrote a book originally
called "One Mind."
>>NOORY: Right.
>>ALEXANDER: And
we're talking there
about the interconnectedness
of everything.
And I happen to think that
that's probably right.
And it is the thing that
looks like it comes closest
to explaining all
of these phenomena
that we have been discussing.
>>NOORY: What does
that tell you, though?
When you talk about
the connection of ESP,
precognition, UFOs,
remote viewing,
near-death experiences,
what does that
tell you about the
broadness of the universe?
What is this all about?
>>ALEXANDER: Well,
I think it says
that our model of the
universe, if you're
looking at the Western view
of a materialistic universe,
is wrong.
You know,
materialistic says, I'm
going to cut smaller
and smaller pieces
and I'll get to the
basic building block.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>ALEXANDER: And if you look
at what we've put into it--
I use this as the
economic argument as well.
You've got the Large Hadron
Collider, which is used.
>>NOORY: CERN.
>>ALEXANDER: We put $18
billion into that research
looking for what is,
quote, the "God particle."
Higgs boson came up.
>>NOORY: They said
they found it.
>>ALEXANDER: But
shortly after that,
all of a sudden we said,
whoops, there's pentaquarks.
Where did this come from?
You know, we
thought we had the--
>>NOORY: Right.
>>ALEXANDER: And
every time we look,
we keep finding there's
more and more and more.
None of this, however, gets to
explanations of things-- again,
we start pertubating time.
You find things with energy
sources that just cannot be
explained.
In my next book, I talk about
things that can't happen
but did, and they're
all first-hand.
And the things that
I have seen happen--
you know, levitation, apports,
things of that nature,
you go, where did the
energy come from--
>>NOORY: Where did it come from?
>>ALEXANDER: --that
allows this to happen?
And you cannot come up with
a classic material view.
>>NOORY: Will we ever
get these answers?
>>ALEXANDER: No.
>>NOORY: I don't
think so either.
>>ALEXANDER: Well,
I have something
I wrote about it
called Alexander's
law of appropriate complexity.
And what I mean by
that is everybody--
>>NOORY: We're
talking about you,
John Alexander as opposed
to Alexander Graham
Bell or something like that.
>>ALEXANDER: No, this
applies to everybody.
And everybody is at some level
of understanding complexity
in their life and getting along.
And what you find is
just about the time
that you think you've
got the answers,
a whole new dimension
opens up and you find out,
hey, I'm back at
square one, starting up
on the next level of complexity.
So I think they're probably
infinite, and ones that
definitely need exploration.
And we need serious scientists
to be involved in this.
>>NOORY: You talked
about consciousness.
We've talked about
extraterrestrials.
Do you think that these
beings have the ability
to tap into our consciousness?
>>ALEXANDER: They may
be our consciousness.
>>NOORY: They may be.
>>ALEXANDER: Yeah.
So again, if we
believe, as I happen to,
that the entire universe
is totally interconnected,
then they are us.
And so they may be even
created by us or pieces of it.
Again, terribly
complex, but certainly
consciousness plays a role
crosscutting everything.
>>NOORY: Does spirituality
get involved in any of this?
>>ALEXANDER: It's
fundamental to it.
One of my-- in fact, the
last line in the book
now is that you're a
spiritual being having
a human experience.
And again, I've worked with
shamans all over the world.
And one of the problems
that we have in the West
is we tend to not
like things spiritual.
And yet the cultures that I've
worked with around the world,
this is a common factor.
>>NOORY: Well, talking
about around the world,
there are some
societies and religions
that actually believe in this.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: In Candomblé,
the deities are referred
to as orishas.
There are hundreds
of them reflecting
different manifestations of
God, like fire, water, or war.
- When the orishas come to
Earth through their followers,
they dance.
And we believe that the actual
deity, it comes to the Earth
through that body of that
person, which for us is
something very good, because
we are able to engage
with our deities.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: Now that happened
to be Afro-Brazilian.
>>ALEXANDER: That's Candomblé.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>ALEXANDER: No.
We have been there.
We've attended ceremonies.
In fact, one that we had, we
were at an Umbanda ceremony
in Curitiba in Brazil.
My wife actually
became possessed.
>>NOORY: No.
Right in front of you?
>>ALEXANDER: And this
was a serious thing.
Now, what happened
was that we were
at a very large ceremony,
about 300 people there,
but only about 10 gringos
that were in there.
And the lead high priestess
said, does anybody
want healing.
And Victoria stood in front
of her and put her hands up
and the story says something
just jumped into her.
>>NOORY: Jumped right into her.
>>ALEXANDER: Took over her body.
>>NOORY: Oh my gosh.
>>ALEXANDER: And for
the next 15 minutes
or so, she's out whirling
and literally stop the show.
>>NOORY: Were you scared?
>>ALEXANDER: Yes.
It was interesting, because
I was taking a picture.
Unfortunately, I didn't
have a movie camera.
I have a lot of stills
and have posted them.
And they're used to seeing--
but they're not used to seeing
a gringo out there, you know,
totally possessed.
>>NOORY: Doing what
they're doing, yeah.
>>ALEXANDER: And of course,
they came over to me
and said, why are you taking it?
Are you a reporter?
I said, no.
That's my wife.
And they go, she'll be OK.
And I use Brazil as kind
of a classic example,
because I deal with Brazilians
at very, very high levels
in technical matters in Brazil.
And they're educated in Western
society and institutions,
and accept that.
Conversely, they also
accept spiritism,
which is-- this is one of the
spiritist religions down there.
>>NOORY: And they're into it.
>>ALEXANDER: I've
seen John of God,
for instance, in Abadiania.
>>NOORY: Great healer.
>>ALEXANDER: And yeah, in my
view, that's the real deal.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>ALEXANDER: And
like I say, we've
been there a couple of times.
And you just cannot explain.
Now, I'll raise
the complex issue.
Last time we were there
was about two years ago.
And we saw the people were
now coming in busloads.
Used to be a few hundred.
Now there are
thousands of people.
>>NOORY: Thousands.
>>ALEXANDER: Everybody who
came in a wheelchair left
in a wheelchair.
So my question then is, why is
it that some people get healed
and others don't?
>>NOORY: And others don't.
>>ALEXANDER: And
these I think are--
it absolutely happens.
But how do we explain that?
>>NOORY: See, are they
healing themselves, John?
Do they have this belief
system where they take care
of themselves, and then
some of the others can't?
>>ALEXANDER: Well, we're
into basic belief systems
and the answer would be, I'm
not sure, because again, you
have experiences.
And I've heard John talk to
people and say, I can heal you.
But I'm going to raise
another dimension here.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>ALEXANDER: And that is
the issue of reincarnation.
He says, but if I
heal you in this life,
you have a karmic
debt that you're going
to have to pay in some others.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>ALEXANDER: So
you probably ought
to proceed now and pay
the debt and get that off.
>>NOORY: Nothing's free.
>>ALEXANDER:
Others-- like I say,
we have Wayne Dyer is kind of
the classic example in there.
And he was healed
remotely and of leukemia.
Dramatic effects showed up very
shortly after an intervention
by John of God in Abadiania.
But he's in Hawaii at the time.
>>NOORY: That's
an amazing-- yeah.
God rest Wayne Dyers' soul.
>>ALEXANDER: He died
of a heart failure.
>>NOORY: Right.
Not the leukemia.
>>ALEXANDER: Nothing
to do with leukemia.
>>NOORY: Not the
leukemia, right.
>>ALEXANDER: The
leukemia been healed.
>>NOORY: How did the wife become
de-possessed when that finally
ended for her?
>>ALEXANDER: Well
one of the questions
we had from friends
when we came back
was, well, did you bring
something back with you?
>>NOORY: Let's hope not.
>>ALEXANDER: We hope not.
No, she just went on the
side and kind of slowly
"came back," if you will.
But it was very, very dramatic.
And I mean, you could tell
it was very different.
>>NOORY: That would be scary.
>>ALEXANDER: Now, she's
had a lot of experiences.
And frankly, we've been
in other ceremonies,
like in Vitoria, where
we've attended other Umbanda
ceremonies, and
there's something
about where they recognize her.
They look at us
kind of strangely
as foreigners coming into
the favelas and doing it.
>>NOORY: But they know her.
>>ALEXANDER: But pretty soon,
she gets recognized and--
>>NOORY: Our late friend, Apollo
14 astronaut Edgar Mitchell--
>>ALEXANDER: Ed Mitchell.
>>NOORY: --puts a lot
of us into perspective.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: One of our early
investors in noetics almost 40
years ago asked me--
told me, Edgar, I
would like for you
to investigate this
very question of what
happens when we die.
I said, John, I would be
delighted to investigate
and understand what happens
to consciousness when we die.
But first of all,
I've got to find out
what consciousness
is, because we do not
know in scientific terms,
at least, what it is.
We know we're all conscious.
We know that-- we're now knowing
that most all matter, living
matter, is conscious.
And consciousness even
goes down into what
we consider non-living matter.
It starts in the quantum world.
We're quite sure of that.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: He was one of a kind.
>>ALEXANDER: Absolutely.
And by the way, he
had an amazing healing
from prostate cancer
as well early on,
so he'd had personal experience.
But again, interesting there,
his son also died of that well
before him, and again
didn't get healed,
even though they tried to.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
That was a sad episode for him.
But he brings up an
interesting point
that I want to
wrap up with, John.
And that is, what
is consciousness?
What does this all mean?
What is it?
>>ALEXANDER: I don't know.
You got any simple questions?
>>NOORY: Yeah, really.
>>ALEXANDER: The
problem is, again, we
get back to we're dealing
with something that
is terribly, terribly complex.
>>NOORY: True.
>>ALEXANDER:
Possibly unknowable.
>>NOORY: But real.
>>ALEXANDER: Absolutely real.
There's no doubt
about the reality.
And again, I think
what behooves us would
be to get into and study--
by the way, we've been
talking in phenomenology here,
and a lot of my writing on
national and international
security kinds of issues.
These have global implications
from a strategic standpoint.
If we start looking at if
all of human consciousness
is interconnected and all
of us are part of there
and you are your
brother's keeper,
what does this say about our
foreign policy, for instance?
>>NOORY: John, thanks for
being on Beyond Belief.
>>ALEXANDER: Thank you.
>>NOORY: It is mind-perplexing.
What is consciousness?
What does it all mean?
We may never get the answers.
But with people
like John Alexander,
we will continue to explore.
With programs like Beyond Belief
we will continue to probe.
And maybe one day we'll
find out a little bit more
about the mysteries
of the universe.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching Beyond Belief.
[THEME MUSIC]